# world-population

# 🌍 Global Population Forecasting & Statistical Modeling  

### **"The Rise & Fall of Human Increase" ∙ 10 Dec 2021**

Large-scale statistical modeling and analysis of the United Nation's world population data as made available in April 2021. Dates covered are 1950-2100.

The census data is 100% complete & organized by ISO location code. ISO codes are also available here for cross-listing purposes. The two datasets were joined in order to discuss population forecasts in terms of currently-titled country names.  

The Methodology .pdf file explains the UN's Dept of Statistics' methods for forecasting populations to 2100, and for explaining data estimation techniques where census data may have been unavailable under certain circumstances.  

Presentation was compiled and executed using slides generated by RMarkdown.  
Report is available as an HTML walkthrough and contains code snippets & graphic visualizations.  

Files in this repository:
 - ***world-population-2021.zip*** contains the single ***world-population-2021.csv*** file containing the census data
 - ***wikipedia-iso-country-codes.csv*** contains the ISO referenced country names used to make the above file
 - ***WorldPopulation_FINAL.Rmd*** is the presentation file containing the slides in RMarkdown.
 - ***report.html*** demonstrates the results of the analysis with code snippets and graphic visualizations.
 - the other two files are older but I'm leaving them here until my old reference links no longer need them

---

[View the report.](https://www.github.com/codequeentastic/world-population/report.html)
